VIDEO: Why Some People Get Lucky (And You Don't)
CHANNEL: Lana Blakely
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-20  VIEWS: 17340
TRANSCRIPT:
I think luck is what happens when preparation meets a moment that you almost missed. So, you might say that you just got lucky because you were at the grocery store and you just met this old friend of yours and it turned out that they are looking to hire someone at the company they're working at and you may be the perfect candidate and you are deep into looking for a new job. So, you might say, "Wow, I got so lucky that I just randomly met this old friend of mine at the grocery store." But, I would add an important element. You were in a room where luck was given the chance to even find you. We need to be in enough rooms and places where luck even has a chance of finding us. Basically, luck is being in the room and being [music] ready. Ready how? Ready in that instead of avoiding this person, pretending like you didn't see them, you actually struck up the conversation. Ready as in instead of being in a rush and being like, "Hi, nice to meet you. Bye." You actually stood there. You give them your time and you were engaged. Maybe you were the one initiating the question, being like, "Hey, so where do you work nowadays?" You were being social and curious. Now, oftentimes all it takes is a very small moments. I call it one minute of bravery. Life changes from those short bursts of courage. It's not about having a fearless, super confident personality. All you need is that little moment where you act anyway, even when you're not feeling like it, even when it's scary, you do it anyway. You never know where the opportunity that could change something for you maybe on a very big scale lies. It is sneaky. It is not obvious. Opportunities do not scream in our faces. They are subtle. They are like dust or a light feather or like an ant. You never know where it is. You can't really always detect it. Sometimes you can, but it's not usually loud, right? And therefore, we often miss opportunities because we don't really think that it's going to lurk in our everyday. Missing opportunities is usually a pattern and not just bad luck. It is a pattern of saying no. It is a pattern of being closed off when other people talk to you, if that's at work or an event or when you're traveling or it's a pattern of canceling. It's a pattern of all of those things that make luck kind of impossible to reach you. Even if luck is lingering right there and you're just like no. Luck is not going to fight to find you. Luck is going to just linger and be like let's see if she or he finds me. I'm here. But I'm not going to chase you. Everyone wants a piece of the luck. Every single person. Luck is not going to chase you. So maybe there is a, I don't know, a bar or a cafe that you frequent and you always have the same routine. You go in, you don't look at anyone, you grab your coffee, you run out. Maybe there's someone there that you know, that you could have a little conversation with. Maybe there is someone who is giving you a little bit of a look. They fancy you and you miss it cuz you're not looking. You're just like in, out, >> [music] >> leave, home, closed off to the world. Maybe you want to post your art, your voice, your writing, your content, but it's it's nowhere. It's nowhere. Luck is not seeing you cuz everything you create stays on your computer and your phone. Where is it? Can >> [music] >> Hello? Where is the art? Oh, it's still on your phone. How was anyone supposed to take part of it? Not that there is a guarantee that you'll create a huge community simply by sharing something, but if you don't share it, zero opportunity. And whatever comes after zero is better than zero. You need to see yourself as someone [music] who takes chances, acts quickly, and doesn't wait for perfect timing. [music] And now to what you can ask yourself. Brace yourself. This is going to change your life. Are you unlucky? Or are you just hesitating at the exact moment your life is trying to change? Let's just sit with that one. Are you unlucky or are you just hesitating at the exact moment your life is trying to change? Only you can answer that. I know what my answer is. I think it [music] is to your benefit to understand that your life is probably not going to change from a big, >> [music] >> perfect plan. It's going to change from the small moments that you almost [music] talk yourself out of.